Now what we're going to do is we are going to separate our front end code that we've been writing up
until this point.
So all of our front end application code into its own folder.
And the reason we need to do this is because we have to have a separation between our back end and our
front end so what we'll do is we will make a new folder inside of this directory called client using
the m k d IRR command.
So this is pretty much make directory and this will create a new folder for us called client.
Now what you want to do is you want to move everything inside of our existing directory right.
Using the end the command into this client folder.
And when you do that you will see an error that says the rename attempts of client to dock clients last
client is invalid.
This is fine because you cannot move.
Of course the client folder into the client folder.
Right.
You can't move folder into itself but if you hit less you'll see that everything is gone now from our
root.
And if you see into the client you'll see all of the files that we had before.
So now all of our front end code is inside of this client folder which is what we want if you open up
this folder though you will see that you have a hidden dot get folder and Dot getting your folder still
in this root file.
You want to keep those there because the DOT get pretty much holds the history of all of our commits
and get anything related to our Get is inside of here and we want that.
We want to keep the history that we've got so far the get ignore is pretty much what tells whenever
we may get commands what not to push to get.
So we will modify this a little later after we finished writing all of our back in code.
But this is pretty much what we needed to do next what we have to do is we need to make a new package
dock Jason File and the reason we need to do this is because our old package that Jason File is inside
if you remember our client folder now and that's perfectly fine because that package that Jason dictates
all of the rules and all of the packages and the node modules related to the client related to our front
end are back in now is going to be a completely different set of dependencies and we are going to make
a new package that Jason file so you can do that by saying touch package.
Jason now you'll have a new package that Jason File and while we're here we might as well also touch
a server DOJ as well.
This server DOJ us file will represent pretty much the entry point for our server code.
It's all gonna go in this file and let's just open this up and start modifying our packages.
Jason now I have included for you the package that Jason Bass that we need so you can just get that
from the resources and then copy it into your package that Jason and then you just pasted in so inside
of package that she's on here I've named my project crown clothing server.
You can name yours whatever you want but this just represents the back and server version 1.0 perfectly
fine it's just the version of this package.
And then here you'll see this script.
Right.
So here we have the new scripts that we will be running.
Now when we run the client script we are going to see into our client folder and then we're gonna run
your start there.
So it's pretty much like you aren't running your own start before.
In order for us to start up our funding application on local host three thousand this server command
is going to run our server.
Yes.
So this is kind of like saying you start but we're saying we want to instead run node server jazz.
Now what is node on Node 1 is a package we're going to include in our global and what it does is it
allows us to wrap our server digest right.
So wrap our node project around this new service called Node man that pretty much gives us live reloading
which just means that if we modify our server such as file and we're running our server our server will
automatically restart.
It's just the hot reloading that we had with our create racked up.
You remember whenever we modified files or components our application automatically restarted and we
have the latest version.
So what you're going to do is you're going to run NPM I dash G node mod and this will install node Mun
into your global next.
We have built and build does the same that we had before.
What it does is it S.D. into the client and it runs our build script.
The dev script is how we run both our server and client on one terminal.
Typically what we would be do if we didn't use this package called concurrently is we would have to
open up two terminals one terminal what C D into our client and then it would run and start here.
And here we would run maybe like a yarn server.
The problem with that is just that we have to open up more terminals than we need to.
And if one crashes the other might still be running but we don't want that because we can't develop
one without the other.
Right.
So we want to run this program called concurrently which is included as a dev dependency that allows
us to run both on one terminal as well as it allows us to pass this kill others on fail which means
that if one breaks the other one will also break so that's the main benefit of running concurrently
start.
We'll just call node server J.S. and we include this for Heroku Heroku will be running our start script.
So that's why we can't provide Node 1 there.
Right.
And we don't need hot reloading.
We only need hot ready loading for ARC development purposes.
So there's no reason to include no demand for a dev dependency on our final production.
So that's why we can simply just run node server J.S. and then we have this final script Heroku post
build and this post build is a script that Heroku itself will run after it's finished building and what
it does is it's going to go into our client.
It's going to install all of our node module and then it's going to install any of our dev dependencies
and then there's no shrink wrap is a flag that we were put in where we don't want to shrink wrap things
and shrink wrapping just means that it locks down all of the Dependency versions which we just don't
want that to do and then finally we just call our NPM run build which we know will build our clients
build folder and we wanted to do that because we want to actually host out of our build folder and I'll
show you how we're going to do that inside of our server.
But let's just go over our dependencies.
We have this body parser library that allows us to pretty much run this body parser middleware in our
server that allows us to leverage certain things.
The main thing that we want to leverage is that we want the requests that we get to convert their bodies
into Jason so that we can actually read it easier.
You remember we did this with fetch whenever we fetched anything we had to cut.
Jason on it in order to convert it into Jason so we can read it in our javascript.
This just makes it easier for us to do that.
We're also running course which is a library that allows us to handle cross origin requests.
We'll go over that when we actually use it.
There's this dot end as well and this dot env allows us to actually store secret keys.
So if you remember I was mentioning a stripe requires us to actually keep that secret key on our back
and server while we're gonna put an end.
This is how we actually keep those keys secret on our web server and I'll show you how we're gonna do
that as well.
EXPRESS Is the framework that we're running that pretty much makes it easier for us to write our note
back and if I had to just teach you node it would end up being an extremely extremely long lesson because
node is actually quite extensive to write by hand expressed is a framework that makes it all very easy.
You can kind of see it as something akin to a front end framework like angular except for the back end
and then the stripe is our stripe library that we use to actually make charges.
So now that we have our package that Jason we have our server at that J.S. file that we just made we're
going to also make sure to your oh what I didn't say so make sure the safe.
And now if you run yarn This will include all of our files that we need
and then what you need to do is you also need to add in this new key called engines right here.
So what this will do is it will tell our project what version of node and NPM that we're running here.
You're gonna write no dash B and copy over these numbers and you're just going to say inside of our
engines node goes to the version ten point one five point three.
Right.
Or whatever your version of node you get is this is mine at the current moment and then you're gonna
do the same thing for and p.m. You're gonna copy this number over and inside of here you're gonna point
to this version of NPM and this is pretty much all we need to do inside of our package.
Not Jason and now we have all of the code that we need to start writing our server.
J.
So let's get started with that in the next lesson.